We are very excited to announce that applications are open for the CMS MREFC
2023 Summer Internship Program for Underrepresented Minority Undergraduate 
Students!  We would like to ask you to encourage representative undergraduate 
students at your institution who are pursuing their degrees in STEM fields such
as Physics, Astronomy, Engineering, or related fields to apply. The deadline to
apply is Jan. 31, 2023.

The Compact Muon Solenoid Upgrade (CMS) Major Research Equipment and Facility
Construction (MREFC) Project is a unique and exciting project to upgrade the
CMS detector at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN. The LHC is the
largest and most powerful particle accelerator in the world. Upgrades will
enable the CMS detector to work at higher intensity and extend our reach in
the search for New Physics.

We are reaching out to you as a faculty member at a school who educates a
higher proportion of non-White students than many other institutions. Every 
community benefits from a diversity of lived experiences and high-energy 
physics is no different. Our collaboration created this internship specifically
to solicit students who might not otherwise have considered working on this 
type of science.

These are paid positions and the funds come from an umbrella grant from the NSF, 
specifically for upgrades to the CMS experiment. Hosting institutions have been
selected specifically because of their commitment to providing a supportive and
equitable environment. We plan on providing onboarding materials in advance of 
the summer work for any students or local mentors who might be interested. 

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me (Matt Bellis, 
mbellis@siena.edu) or Brenda Smith (bkc4@cornell.edu).

Applications can be submitted here

https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/23602

And more details can be found here. 

https://www.classe.cornell.edu/Research/CMS/Phase2/SummerIntershipProgram.html

Thank you for considering sharing this with your students. And have a great
winter break!

Matt Bellis for the CMS MREFC-EPO team
Julie Hogan, Sal Rappoccio, Anders Ryd, and Brenda Smith


Internships:

Project leaders seek to hire several undergraduate students to work on various development teams throughout the summer. 

Internship positions are full-time (39 hrs/wk) and involve hands-on development of hardware components performed in an on-campus laboratory. 

The prospective summer 2023 projects include (final locations subject to change):
* Purdue University (West Lafayette, IN) - pixel detector mechanics and module construction,
* Rice University (Houston, TX) - pixel detector electronics,
* Texas A&M University (Columbus, TX), project tbd,
* The Ohio State University (Columbus, OH) - Students will participate in testing silicon pixel detector modules that are being produced for the CMS TFPX detector being constructed for the HL-LHC. Student will help develop, implement, and carry out debugging, characterization, and calibration of these modules.
* University of California Los Angeles (Los Angeles, CA), project tbd, and
* University of Kansas (Lawrence, KA) - Students will help to make and test high-speed micro-twisted pair electronics cables as well as study the readout signals and how they are transported from the readout chips to the optical fibers.

Applicants may express interest in internships at more than one institution. Length of internships are 8 to 10 weeks depending on the institution. The program will pay the standard undergraduate summer intern rate at each institution, housing will be provided, and relocation costs will be covered or reimbursed. Meal plans are not provided, but there are dining options on campus for purchase.

Training and mentorship will be provided. Interns will be matched with a faculty mentor and will be part of a peer cohort of summer students (from various programs in physics). Interns will also participate in the larger CMS undergraduate student cohort remote activities.


Eligibility:
* No prior experience in this area of specialty is required. Training and mentorship will be provided.
* Qualifications include a C or higher (2.0 / 4.0 GPA) in introductory mechanics and electricity and magnetism, an interest in high-energy physics, and a willingness to learn new skills.
* Many institutions require all employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or to have obtained a university-approved medical or religious exemption. For additional information on this requirement, visit: https://hr.cornell.edu/covid/university-response/vaccination
* The Internship program is open only to US citizens and permanent residents. If accepted, you will be required to show proof of citizenship or permanent residency.
* This program is intended primarily for sophomore and junior students in science and engineering. In exceptional cases first year students could have enough familiarity with physics, engineering, or computer science to profit from their research experience.
* Students who have not yet enrolled as undergraduates are not eligible. In some cases seniors may be considered, depending on employment rules at the hosting institutions (in some cases graduating seniors cannot be appointed in undergraduate internship positions).

